as you're sitting there watching this
video you might think you're totally
still relatively speaking but in fact
you along with the entire solar system
are moving really fast at that our Milky
Way galaxy is rotating at about 145
miles per second
sorry officer I didn't realize I was
speeding in Switzerland you're not
allowed to have just one guinea pig the
reason is that there are social
creatures and therefore must have a
buddy everybody needs somebody right a
small village in India has a very
interesting tradition every time a baby
girl is born people they're planned 111
trees in her honor the bat is the only
mammal that can fly now flying squirrels
don't count
they just collide sorry little fellas
but you're just falling in style
[Music]
scientists believe that diamonds as big
as jewels rained down on Saturn and
Jupiter the lightning burns up methane
into a kind of carbon they clump
together and form graphite which turns
into diamonds that fall from the sky
wait don't I see Lucy up there there's
no sound in space yes if you shout
nobody's gonna hear you and that's
because there are no molecules in the
vacuum of space for the sound waves to
travel through astronauts in space can
lose about 1% of their muscle mass each
month if they don't stick to an exercise
regiment lasting two hours every single
day well that'll motivate you in Alaska
it's prohibited don't spur in someone's
ear while their moose hunting save your
secrets for another time
it's estimated that for every human
being on earth there are 1 million ants
I'll let you do the math while I scratch
the sudden itchy feeling all over my
body you the highest peak in our solar
system is on Mars at 15 miles high
Olympus Mons squashes are great Everest
like a bug or an ant
forget about ROYGBIV there's no set
numbers of colors in a rainbow the
reason is that each hue mixes seamlessly
with the next one without a concrete
boundary next time you see a rainbow in
the sky try counting how many colors you
see the average person spends about 1/3
of their life sleeping think about that
the next time you want to sleep in on
weekends the size of your eyes never
changes it remains the same from birth
well your nose and ears keep growing
about 85% of people breathe out of just
one nostril at a time and depending on
which nostril you're breathing out of in
any given moment it affects your whole
body and particularly your brain the
average person's nose produces about
three pints of mucus a day most of it
goes back into your throat and get
swallowed boy and for your final nose
fact of the day
Rhino till XO mania is an
obsessive-compulsive disorder of picking
your nose uncontrollably don't ever keep
a goldfish in a dark room it'll become
pale then it'll be asking you for a
spray tan oh brother
there's a disease called werewolf
syndrome it's characterized by abnormal
hair growth all over the body female
lions do about 90% of the hunting so
yeah next time you imagine a lion
the prowl you should really be thinking
of a lioness footprints left on the moon
won't disappear anytime because there's
no wind so that small step for man is
still up there venus is a champ when it
comes to volcanoes
it has about 1600 major ones on its
surface however none of them is known to
erupt there are more stars in the night
sky then there are grains of sand on
this planet you might doubt that but
only because just a small portion of
stars is visible in the sky at any given
moment there are about 2,000
thunderstorms happening on earth trust
me I counted okay maybe I didn't but
still coca-cola was the first commercial
drink to be consumed in space so that's
one giant glug for the atlanta-based
soda manufacturer speaking of Cola the
average American drinks about 45 gallons
of soda a year who are poor stomachs
[Music]
actually our stomachs do okay with all
that soda pop I mean the hydrochloric
acid in your stomach can dissolve metal
after all cows can sleep well standing
but they can only dream lying down what
they're all dreaming about though is
beyond me about 40% of women apply body
or hand cream at least three times a day
so now you know you might have heard
that dust is 80% dead skin cells but
that's a misconception two-thirds of
dust comes from outside in the form of
pollen and soot the rest of it is either
a pet dander or just carpet or clothing
fibers that's not to say that you don't
lose plenty of dead skin cells some of
which become part of the dust in your
house but that's just an insignificant
fraction of the nine pounds of dead skin
you
every year the diameter of an aorta
which is the largest artery in the human
body is about the same as a garden house
in New Zealand babies often sleep on
sheep skins this is thought to help them
gain weight faster and keep their body
heat
the average cumulus cloud that's the big
poofy kind weighs just over 1 million
pounds that's the weight of about a
hundred fully grown elephants
floating above your head on a cloudy day
most lipsticks contain fish scales
actually the substance is called pearl
essence and many brands today prefer to
use an artificial version of it beware
of the danger of ballpoint pants well
their caps to be specific each year
about a hundred people choke on them
keep the pan out of your mouth dummy
next time you're planning to lick a
stamp think twice everytime you lick one
you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie yeah
we can measure that a snail can sleep
for three years so now I guess you can
feel better about sleeping one third of
your life away dolphins sleep with one
eye open well if I shared a house with
sharks and barracuda I probably would
too
the youngest monarch in history was
Alphonso the eighth of Spain he became
King on May 17th 1886 that is the day he
was born
the electric chair was invented by
dentist dr. Alfred Southwick see I
always knew there was a reason for my
fear stewardesses is the longest word
that can be typed using only the left
hand go ahead try it out
now typewriter is the longest word that
can be made using the keys on only one
row of the keyboard there are only four
words in the English language that end
in do us tremendous horrendous
stupendous and hazardous can you think
of any more how about making up a new
one
hey maybe a really big duck with a green
head could be called Mallard us or not
one in four Americans has been on TV I
guess Andy Warhol was right when he
predicted that everyone in the future
will be famous for 15 minutes almonds
are members of the peach family yeah
this is useful stuff you might have
heard of deja vu the feeling you've
experienced something before but what
about deja Revie that's when you feel
like you've already dreamed a situation
you might be in at the moment speaking
of dreams the average person has about
three to five each night it's just that
you forget most of them as soon as you
wake up sharks are the only fish that
can blink with both eyes but it's not to
clean or hydrate them they blink to
protect their eyes while biting into
their prey in one recent study most
Americans who were asked what their
favorite smell was answered banana yeah
what about you do you love the smell of
it in 18 months two rats can have a
million descendants
and not to be outdone seahorses can have
up to 2,000 babies in one litter here's
one that'll annoy you
mosquitoes can live perfectly fine on
flower nectar instead of sucking your
blood in fact it's only the females that
bite humans and they do it because they
need blood to produce eggs the largest
flower in the world also happens to be
the stinkiest with a bloom of about
three feet across and weighing roughly
15 pounds the corpse Lily is said to
smell just like well the name says it
all over half of the world's population
have never made or received a phone call
ah a life without telemarketers imagine
1 million earths could fit inside the
Sun by the way the size of our Sun is
quite average in comparison with other
stars in the universe if someone could
fly a plane to Pluto it would take them
about 800 years an 800 year long flight
that sounds like my worst nightmare
approximately once a year an asteroid
the size of a car enters the Earth's
atmosphere
but don't worry they always burn up
before reaching the surface every year
the Earth's rotation slows down by about
1.4 milliseconds so if you've always
wanted more hours in the day just be
patient very very patient